Welcome everyone to the Data Science Hangout.
Welcome back to all the familiar faces.
I think most everybody's been on here at least once,
but also welcome to those joining for the first time.
Thank you, Rob, for covering for me last week while I was out on vacation.
But for today's episode,
or just to kind of level set on the Data Science Hangout as well,
level set on the Data Science Hangout as well for people who are new to this.
These discussions on data science leadership in the enterprise range from
very human-oriented topics to a little bit of technical talk,
but really focusing on questions that are most important to you all.
So there's no agenda.
Please join in live or put any questions that you have in the chat.
With that said, I'd like to just jump in here and introduce
Tori Oblad, Enterprise Data and Analytics Officer at WaFed Bank.
Tori is extremely passionate about training and building community,
so I'm super excited to talk a bit more about that today, too.
Tori, would you be able to kick things off by introducing yourself and maybe
sharing a bit about the work you do on your team?
Sure. So for background,
I have degrees in econ and math.
I've been doing data science professionally for about 20 years
in health care and in banking.
I'm currently working at WaFed Bank where I'm actually starting
the data science program there.
Awesome.
So I know we have these kind of standard questions that we kick things off with
and then people start jumping in with questions.
So one that I'd love to ask you is what are you really excited about right now
with data science?
This isn't totally new, but when I first started,
I was in SAS, and that's not very accessible.
So over the years, it's been fun to see the accessibility,
not just of tools, but really of data science being able
to be shared with people. I'm now having conversations with people where
they're starting to want to learn, and you couldn't take SAS to your house
and learn it. But right now, currently at work, one of the things I'm instituting
is having R as a standard.
So anybody in the company that actually wants to do it can start learning.
I'm not quite there, but we're close.
That's something I'm super interested in because
a lot of people will ask me about how they start their own
internal user group or build their data science community.
And I'm curious, what is starting to
or what has worked well for you, or what are you doing to try and start to build this?
What I've found the most useful is
it's really time expensive, but starting with a few
key people and areas that want to learn something,
working with them one-on-one on something very
if I can fix or help them
figure out how to fix their problem. So it has to be something that
affects them. Otherwise, it goes away. We forget what we've learned.
Starting that community where it's
one-on-one, hands-on training. What are the issues?
How do you think you should go about it? When you can find those
key people that are excited, they will actually start learning. And they become
these internal, wow, this is really exciting. And it's more credible
to hear from somebody that is not a data scientist or super
programmer that's scarier, that you can do it.
I've found that is really helpful to have residents
whether they are Excel users or whatever type of more beginner analyst
to help internally a community. Data science
community is a little different. I can talk about that too
because I think that's fun. So I don't know if people
are more in companies where you have a central data science
or you're more distributed.
What do people live in? I don't know.
Feel free to weigh in in the
chat or speak live too. But I know
what I've heard from some people lately is
how do we actually find those people that would want to learn or the super
Excel power users that could maybe benefit from
using a tool like R or Python?
Like you said, they may not have that data science title.
How do you go about finding all of those people?
One thing I've found very helpful is
just for data science in general to be successful
is to partner with the business.
Generally, your business users are not programmers.
A lot of that
communication where we have an objective that we're trying to meet
through those discussions, generally you'll find small bits of
how are you going about that? Maybe we can tackle that in a different way.
It turns into a lot of small side projects, but it's those relationships
that you're making for the bigger data science issues that you find.
The small guys that need help.
I'd love to chime in here.
At my company, what I found to be very helpful is
leading little learning cohorts. I really focus on
EDA because our studio is awesome for exploratory data
analysis. I can create these little cohorts, some business analysts
in there who work in, let's say, inventory management or transportation, pair them up with
people working who you'd say are more technical data
analysis roles. If you can
get them learning together on a cadence, they form the relationships,
they understand each other's problems, and they learn R at the same
time. Then once you write any Excel user who discovers R, it's
unlikely that they're going to say, wait, I'm going to only use Excel from now on.
That's great.
Frank, if you feel comfortable doing so, it'd be great to introduce yourself
as well to the group. Yeah, I'd love to.
I'm really glad to be here. This is my first session. I work
at Target. I live out in Minnesota. My whole life,
I've been on the coast either up in New York, Boston, New Jersey, or
in San Francisco. For the past three years, I came to work with Target
in there. I came to build, let's say, a hybrid
business intelligence team. When I came here,
we weren't necessarily calling ourselves business intelligence or analytics
or any of that. We called ourselves transportation performance to distinguish ourselves.
Really, I built teams of pretty
good Python and R users. Anyone who didn't know that,
I taught them R first because I think R is a great introduction. Then if they want to do more
machine learning, NLP stuff, they get into Python. For the past
three years, I've been building teams that really sit in the middle of the business and
then being able to do data analysis at a pretty rapid rate.
I lead a team now that I call decision intelligence. It's a little
bit of a branding strategy on my part, but I need my stakeholders to
be thinking about the decisions. When they say, hey, what do you do? What is
your team doing? I say, well, we start with the decisions you're making and the actions you're taking.
Then we can find the analytics to support that. That's what I do
now. I lead a team, mostly support transportation within the supply chain of Target.
I'd say my passion in Target is teaching
people, especially heavy Excel users, how
to get to the next step of what I call higher-powered
data analytics. Awesome. Thanks
for joining, Frank. Thanks for inviting me. Frank, you brought up
a really good point. Something I found very useful when you start having a
community, even if it's just a data scientist and you don't know who is
interested in learning R or even what data science is, is
creating more of a, it has to be organic or it doesn't really work,
but having those more of lunch and learns where it's, hey, invite your
friends because I think people forget how powerful
their networks are. You invite this friend who has another friend.
I'm new to this position.
I'm still building that internal community. From where
I came from, it was interesting because we had a few data scientist
groups throughout the bank.
Over just a few weeks where people would come and say, hey, this is the cool thing I'm learning,
we started getting in compliance humans, which
do not speak computer. It was exciting where
the understanding of even what is possible out there
really started to spread organically with people you wouldn't even expect.
That was awesome.
Don't forget your friends and your friends' friends. It is a very
powerful and good way to create that organic growth of
information and knowledge. For the lunch and learns
that you do, is that something that's weekly or monthly?
We started out, I think, quarterly, but then
people were really interested and they wanted to actually show, oh, I'm actually working on
this thing and it relates to this other person's thing. We started doing
it not quite every other week. That's a lot. I think we're doing it about every three
weeks.
That consistency probably really helps too.
It's interesting too. Something that started to happen,
it started out more data science heavy, but what I thought was
useful is a lot of data scientists really love to talk about
the nerdy geeky stuff. It
turned into not just algorithms, but more
context where people are getting a good audience of practicing
for who you really need to be talking to to get buy-in.
Your executives, they're not going to totally care about your algorithms, unfortunately.
Understanding how to speak to that broader audience. It became
fun for people though because it was, this is this neat thing that I'm doing,
why I'm doing it, and how it works. Let me explain it in
layman's terms. Then what was also nice
is people from other parts of the bank that weren't in data
science, but the girl that was running up ads,
she had no background in it. She explained how her job worked,
how
optimization of Google works. She started working with one of the data scientists
to make it better, which I don't think would have happened without that internal community, which is
awesome. That's great.
I don't want to leave this topic yet, if that's okay with everyone
because I see there's a lot of great comments in the chat window too.
I'm just wondering if maybe Sep, if you wanted to weigh in
with your experience here too.
Yeah, sure. Hi, everybody. My name is Sep. I'm sure we'll get to
know each other more over the weeks. I find this a
very interesting forum just to see how people in different industries
even are impacting their organizations.
I think for me, being in
healthcare and healthcare tangent organizations, which
in general, stereotypically are not very
technical forward sometimes, I find
explaining a lot of or showing a lot of the art of the possibility to be
a fun exercise. I see
Rick's comment and I totally agree. I don't like to just do
necessarily flashy, but just to say, hey, look, there's
efficiency gains that could be made if we
do things this way. That's just the comment I wanted to make there.
I think too, the flashy,
even the simple, what generally
we think is really simple, most people don't realize
how easy it is to get a data set and play with it and make it
easy. The horrible manual
processes that people go through, none of us would do that
anymore, but it's everywhere. Fixing that,
they go into Excel and manually changing
things every single month, just
revealing that that is not something you have to do ever again
is mind blowing. The funny example that I always
give is because my name is Seth, if you put Seth in Excel, it renders
in September. I find it annoying
and it's another reason I just hate Excel.
I always show that example is that if you're going to be dealing with names
and you get a name like mine and Excel renders it in September and then you go export
that and someone's dealing with it, it ends up causing these
issues because it's trying to make it easy for you. I use
that example all the time. It's a pretty funny one.
Eric, I see you had a question around fostering
that internal community. Do you want to ask that one live?
Sure. Great to be here. For those who don't know, my name is Eric. I'm
in life sciences industry and quite a passionate R user
in my various endeavors. My question is a bit loaded.
I don't know if others have experience with this, but
I lead an internal R forum at my company
and it's very well attended. Everybody seems to enjoy it.
I try my best to let others feel like
be comfortable sharing the cool things they're doing with R
because we know R is being more prevalent in our company and across life sciences
in general. I don't know if it's just me.
I have a hard time getting others to lead topics.
It tends to fall on me or somebody over what I'll call the
honest power users, if you will. I don't know if you had advice
on fostering that engagement of
everybody feeling comfortable to share their wins
with R, cool things they're doing, even if they just have questions.
It's a bit loaded. I don't know if you had any advice on making people feel comfortable to
present their work at a forum like that. It's hard.
Yes. It's really hard. I found out the hard way.
I've had to spend a lot of time one-on-one with the person
and just be like, we're planning to present this. Would you be part of
that if you need any help prepping? I would love that, but it'd be so great to debut
your work because X, Y, Z.
It's relevant in this way, which people haven't seen or they could relate to you,
but it's time expensive. Training and getting people
on board anyway is super time expensive unless somebody's
found a magic pill. I've been looking for a long time. I have not
found it yet. The training piece is even harder than just the
community piece of it, in my humble opinion. I do have
some people helping me with the forum I lead, which is very helpful. We try to
reach out to certain people, but I just was hoping I could
get more people coming to us and saying, hey,
I had this great idea, or I just don't get that as much. I'm trying to figure
out ways of incentivizing that a bit. I'll
keep searching, if you will. The only thing that I've found is helpful is
I haven't, what I've done so far hasn't been restricted
to a specific topic at all.
You're not required to do R or something
amazing. It's more of, we just want to share something interesting with each other
that might benefit. That's helpful because it's less stress.
That's a great point.
Something that's helped me with the Boston user group
is if I can't find a speaker sometimes, I'll make it a series
of lightning talks and so have very short presentations
that people will give. People seem to feel a lot more comfortable with that,
especially if it's their first one. I think that's a much easier
ask to someone than saying, leave this 45-minute
session. That's a great point. I'll keep that
in mind. Thank you. Hi, my name is Edgar. I work
with Daimler Trucks. I'm happy to be here and join the forum too.
I was going to share, Eric, what we've done in our company
is kind of phrase it as, what gap have you mastered lately?
Then that gets
people talking from an I learned standpoint versus I don't know how to
do this standpoint. That's one approach.
Then the other approach is we just rotate who facilitates the meeting
and that tends to take different interests.
Sometimes people have a very concise problem they want to fix
or a way to go about something that's not available, whether it is
IT is not permitting it or the software doesn't do it.
Then it becomes that kind of self-guided type of conversation.
Definitely something along the lines of what
gap have you mastered lately. That's cool.
Thank you for sharing, Edgar. Happy to do so.
Maybe I can chime in on how to get
people to show their stuff for Eric. I'm Rick. I also work in
the life sciences. I work a lot with researchers that are doing and do a lot of training
in R. 90% of my work is doing training and teaching and mentoring
and all variety of different capacities. One thing that I've done a lot
is to get them to be more comfortable discussing
and showing their work because there's a lot of hurdles
for new starters in any topic to get over
is that it's not perfect and it's not the right way. They're a little bit embarrassed
to show their stuff. To help them get over that, what I'll do
is I've done this in person and now it's easier. Now I do
things all online. I get them to share their screen or I get them
to explain what they're doing. If I give them an exercise
I would just ask them how they solved the exercise.
Maybe something that a lot of pedagogical people disagree with, I don't give them
really simple questions that have a really nice, easy, clear answer.
I give them an example that has the answer and I say, okay, do it.
It's amazing how many times people just don't do exactly what's in the example.
They're trying all kinds of weird and wacky things. I'm like, okay, fine, just do it. I don't say go
and look at that example and do it. They start doing weird things and I say, okay, how did you do this?
Then they describe it to me and then I'll type it out or I'll get them to share their screen
if it's possible and then other people see what they're doing.
That also helps them work. What I did in the workshops I would usually do
with researchers is they would have time to do their own analysis
and at the end of the workshop I would be looking at what they're doing and if I saw somebody that had a really
cool example or really nice and nice progress, I would say, hey, do you want to take five minutes
and show everybody the stuff I did in the class? Then I would help them and
you can be like co-presenters and we would present it together. Then I would say,
oh, look at this person over here and then I can go into the computer and I can type and things like that.
I was kind of their co-pilot in doing that. That seemed to help
them a lot and then they would be a little bit less
self-conscious about it. The third thing that I do is
I would have them, they would just ask me questions.
I would go around and say, okay, what is your project? What are you working on?
Then they would say things like, is it possible to read in several files?
I'm like, yeah, it's not a problem. You can read in thousands of files, no problem.
They're like, wow, okay, how? Then I would say, okay, well, you know,
let's try to figure it out and then I would present it to the class and then that would give me a chance
to explain deeper all the problems with that topic and things you need to watch out for
and then they would be very much engaged because they're like, oh, I really see the usefulness of this activity
inside of here. All those things I think help to get them a little bit easier
to present. Oh, that's very nice, Rick. Lots of good nuggets there.
We definitely have tried having certain themes throughout the year of like,
maybe we're going to talk more about our markdown or we're going to talk more
about interacting with databases and stuff like that, but I kind of see your point. If you get
them actively working on something and don't hold their hand, but let them be
a little more innovative and a little more creative, then you can glean some nuggets
from that too. So, yeah, that's very cool.
Thank you, Rick. I feel like that kind of leads into one of the questions that Hugh
asked as well around
like helping new R users power through the initial learning curve.
Hugh, do you want to provide any more context on that question?
Sure. My name's Hugh Welch.
This is my third time on these calls and my first time interacting.
I'm a management analyst with the Veteran Health Administration.
I've been using R for the last couple of years to build informatics
products, and we've been getting a lot of interest in those and people
around different facilities wanting to kind of replicate some of that.
Like, that's cool. How do I get into R?
And I kind of feel like, you know, okay, well, here's two books,
a couple data camp courses, vignettes on all the
tidyverse packages, read through these, and then we can start
talking about what to do. It's been kind of difficult getting
people who, some of whom have some programming
background, maybe they've done some visual basic or they've done
familiar with SQL or familiar with some stuff, but a lot of them are just
Power Excel users, and kind of getting them through that mental shift
into there's a different way of thinking about this
has been an area that's been pretty difficult.
I've noticed remote
is harder for me to get people into it, because I
used to just go to somebody's desk and sit down next to them and talk through
even getting R on your computer, setting it up and doing simple
things initially, because then the person is set up, they know these simple
things they can get into. But without the
what I've now started doing is doing a lot of screen sharing. I can't
remember who brought that up, but screen sharing where you can interact
at least if you can't type on each other's, you can either
have the person watch you for a while and then have them do something so that
after you hang up, they can at least refer back
to the ones that you went over. But if I don't do that, if I'm just like,
hey, go watch this tutorial, it doesn't go anywhere. I've noticed
there has to be some initial, I can do this on my own
when somebody's not holding my hand. And then people are
comfortable going to different resources. And it has to be
absolutely applicable to their daily life or they're not going to do it.
Definitely. Finding that practical application
is sometimes challenging, especially with new people who
want to do something really complicated. Let's start
with this very simple problem and do some
EDA on it, do some basic aggregation, pull in some files.
We're not going to build a model in the first 10 minutes
that tells you what you need to know. But thank you.
I was thinking actually about putting together maybe
some company R Markdowns with some very
simple applicable to broad areas.
We're pulling in data. Well, it's generally Excel.
Make that simple for them to swap out what data. And we want to graph it.
Make it very simple, just so they have little snippets of code that
is super simple if you've played in R. But if when you're new, you're like,
what is GG? What are my inputs? And it's
overwhelming, so people just stop. So just making it,
I'm going to make you feel powerful and make something beautiful from a very simple
script that you can run on your own. I should probably actually do that.
Think about it. Yeah. And I just finished a master's in analytics,
and some of the professors had great primers on where to start because
the backgrounds vary. So establishing difference between
R and RStudio and RStudio libraries and how powerful
RStudio is, I mean, you immediately fall in love with it. But the cool
thing is, you know, the primer includes things to the effect of
create a folder, put this file in Excel in it. You'll read it with
this script, but then go open it and check out what you did because you're going to edit
the RStudio. And that just not only builds kind of
a mental model of how things work, but also the
trust in your new interface. So that really worked well for us.
Well, for me as a student, that is.
It's funny trying to imagine if we were all in person right now.
And so I take the signal of unmuting as thinking maybe somebody's
about to speak. So I was wondering if, Frank, if you wanted to add
anything too. Yeah. Following off what Tori was saying,
I feel as though I've had good success writing starter scripts for people
just taking a bit. So we are lucky at Target
to have both an awesome package called Bullseye
Connect written by this guy, Alex Meyer, that connects to all our databases.
So you install the package and then you
connect it to any database basically in the company. So that's one.
And then the second thing that's been huge is we have hosted RStudio and
hosted Jupyter Notebooks. So all you do is go to a link
and then say, like, start a new instance of RStudio. Just like if you were doing it on Kaggle,
but we have it for Target so you're on our VPN and
you can access the data. So that has been huge and it makes it very
easy for me as someone who's interested in R and say, hey, what data do you use
most often? OK, let's find your data source and
then basically just build a script that's, what, 20, 30 lines of code
and go through, read in the data, maybe do a tiny bit of cleaning,
aggregate it, build a cool visualization with Plotly and
immediately they're like, oh, this is cool. And then you can change one or two fields
and say, like, you have an awesome facet plot here, change one field, and now
you have something completely different and you're seeing your data in a way that you've never seen it before.
You can get people to that really fast
and some people will stick with it. Some people will be like, this is great,
I'm going to use this insight and I'm never coming back to this again. Some people
are going to go with it, but then the cost of doing that
and building those starter scripts individually is really low because we have the right tools
so you can find out who is actually, like, the level of engagement for different users
it doesn't really matter the
portion of them that fall off versus the portion that adopts it because the portion that adopts it
will then, I think, go on to become evangelizers.
Don't discount the, oh, sorry,
don't discount the people that don't use it, though, because at least they know
what's possible and those people can become very good evangelizers.
Like, knowing the possible, yeah, but they're like,
oh, wait, I know if you talk to so-and-so you can actually solve this problem.
That is a big cohort because a lot of people are not going to
keep going. It's just how it is.
It's still not a waste of your time, so don't get too discouraged.
Sorry, Hugh, I interrupted you.
No, you're good. I was just going to say thank you to Frank. I really like that idea of
doing some of the grunt work for them to make it really easy to grab some
stuff and get some immediate results so that they can kind of engage
quickly and then, if they're interested, figure out how it actually
works so they can do it themselves and break it apart and make it better.
And they will. There will be plenty of those people that run with it and think this is
amazing and, yeah, then they start doing it every day.
Some of that setup stuff scares a lot of people away because they see, oh,
there's code and connections and I don't know what this means. I'm just going to, you know,
I'm going to move on.
What was that called? Bullseye Connect. That's actually the first package
I wrote here because I was like, people get stuck on
connecting to the data and you can't do anything without that connection.
Others don't have that internal thing. That, I think, is absolutely key.
You can't get to the data. They're kind of stuck and they're
not going to get out Excel because they don't have access to anything else.
That's a great point.
Oh, it sounded like someone was about to say something.
If I can jump in again, I completely agree with the
starter script package or the idea of having the starter script.
And I think one thing that I add on top of that is that
it's helping them to, a lot of the, really, people that never did
anything programmatic or command line tools or any typing in the terminal
or anything, they just don't get the, they don't have the mental model.
Somebody mentioned this idea of the mental model. I think that's really important. Not just in terms of the
algorithms, but also like how this thing fits together, right? So they don't appreciate
the self-referential functions that change
the input, that you can't run them twice, right? Like if I do a log10 of a
variable, I can't run that function again because I'm going to get error messages.
And then they freak out. It's like, well, why'd I get a message? Well, because you did the log10 of a log10.
Like that, they don't get that. They don't see why that's a weird thing.
They don't see that they can replace a variable and they don't get a warning message if they replace it.
So what I do is, I think one next thing is to try and help them
to build up the whole workflow.
So if you have a solution in Excel that they've already
done, and this comes back to the other idea, right? Like how do you make it relevant for them?
That script is going to be based on something that's really relevant in the project that they're working on or some idea.
And you have this solution in Excel. And the one I like to do is QPCR
because scientists love this technique and there's no clear standardized way
to analyze the results because every different system is a complete mess. And everybody's
spending a lot of time doing their analysis on QPCR. So they have their terrible solution
in Excel and SPSS and graph type prism and things like this.
And then I say, okay, so let's write basically just like pseudocode. Like what do we need to do?
We need to calculate this and we need to calculate this and we need to calculate this and we need to make this plot.
And then they have a hard time sometimes telling me like what they want to do.
And then there's communications issues. And I get to talk to them about how they need to describe
what they're talking about and how when they say something like, I need to
take the mean of the weight. And then they'll take the mean of
I want the mean of each group.
So they'll take the mean and then inside the brackets they'll put the
grouping variable. And I'm like colloquially when we say take the mean
of each group, we know what we mean. We mean to take the weight according to
each of the group variables. But that's not how we have to type it. So they type literally how they think.
And then all these kinds of discussions help them to kind of see in their head this conversion from what they do
in Excel into R. So then we build like the pseudocode piece by piece by
piece. And then they can basically fill in the blanks of all the commands and they can see all the different steps.
And then in doing that, I also tell them if you can't get one part,
don't worry about it because the analysis part here is separate from the visualization
part. And it's separate from this part down here. So if you get stuck on that part,
just do what you can and just leave it and then go to the visualization. And if you get stuck there, then go
back to the analysis and then go to this part here. So you don't have to do one piece to get to the next
part. And you can kind of go back and see. I had no idea that I could then fill it out
in the end. And I think those kind of things help.
Thank you, Rick. I think Stephen asked a question that
kind of revolves around this conversation as well.
Stephen, would you want to introduce yourself and ask that question?
Yeah, absolutely. This is the first
Hangout I've joined, so this is kind of cool. I started
in SAS and I moved to R and I learned that it is not as simple as like,
oh, just check out this vignette and go do that. And I really
resonate with what he was saying. It's like, go take this specialization in
Coursera and come back and we'll talk like six months later or something.
I'm trying to find the right level of data literacy to build in our company.
I'm comfortable with R and R Markdown. I have a senior statistician who
is, but for those junior members, I want to enable them to get out of Excel.
I even want to enable them to just do simple things like pivot tables. So I'm trying to figure out
like, does it make sense to really invest
in having them learn R over six months to a year or, you know, we're talking
about these dashboards and interactive things. There's middle grounds, I think, to
take. I guess my comment, or maybe
I'm curious what you guys have done in finding like which people are
the right ones to just make them like pivot table masters versus those
who should really be spending time to learn R and know how to code things
ground up. It really depends
on the person's interest, right? I've
noticed some people just are not interested
at all. They see that Excel is their thing.
And so there are a couple people I've been
working with lately that fall into this category. And so
I have gone through Excel with them to try to at
least make it a little more efficient, but it still wasn't doing what we were doing. So
on the side, I did something in R for them and have like this little
dashboard that they can go interact with the data. And one of
the guys is like, oh, this is way better. You know,
I actually, I can actually learn some things and
it was interesting after spending a couple months with him in
Excel and then just being like, can you play with this? Because I can't get it
to work exactly in Excel the way I want. Does this work for you? And he
at that point, after we've struggled together forever, he's like
wow, okay, maybe I will try. So
it seems really person to person and interest level.
I don't know, like you mentioned learning Tableau, Power
BI. A lot of
particularly management doesn't seem to, well actually a lot of people
don't understand the difference between why you'd want a full blown
programming language versus say a Power BI or
Tableau. And if the data is great,
sure they can use Power BI, but if
it's not good, they're going to struggle to death if they want to do
anything that's not out of the box.
I went down that path, I don't know,
maybe five years ago and I was like, nope, I'm not going to train
people on Tableau and Power BI. It's too much to take on
in addition. Plus I think most of the problems
have to do, they run into data issues.
Anybody else have thoughts? Well, I was
going to say, do one of these.
When I started introducing R to a lot of the management at Target
inspection, they were like, what do you mean it's free? I'm like, it's a free source.
Just use it. But
going back to Excel in particular,
even my team of analysts, I encourage them to build toy
models in Excel. If you can think through the idea
in Excel, you're going to be able to easily explain it to people. So I'm a
huge proponent of starting that way for both business
analysts, operators, data analysts, because it's so fast.
And if you can build a toy model in Excel, then
you can say, OK, we want to do even quicker or we want to do this at a higher
scale. Then you move over to the R
world. Really quick example. Again, I work
in supply chain. We are trying to figure out how do trucks move around
our yards and when are they going to get too full? I built the first thing in
Excel because it was super easy to explain to everybody how I was thinking about it, the information
that I didn't have. And once everyone said, yeah, it looks like
it gets pretty close to the answer we're looking for. It helps us make decisions.
And I said, OK, great. This is for 1 BC. I need to do it for 25, not creating 25
spreadsheets. Then I just put the logic in R and I was able to do it
pretty darn quickly for all of our distribution centers.
I think people knock Excel.
It is a great prototyping tool and it allows for that
communication with the business. A lot of people aren't going to learn your
code, but they will go through an Excel workbook.
It is a useful tool that helps with
communication and building that relationship with the business.
I know we don't want to use it, but what?
Meet them where they are.
I was just going to be quiet for the rest of the time, but I've actually been
down this exact road with Tableau and Power BI for the last few years.
VHA had an enterprise contract with Tableau a few years ago.
We developed significantly there, thinking that
was going to be the future. Then two years ago, they decided
they're going to cut the contract and go to all Microsoft. They said, we're going to migrate to Power BI.
It's not a migration if I can't take my work with me.
We found that
we were suddenly tasked with redeveloping so many
things that we built over the last several years. We started looking around to see
what were some other options. That's why we started to go down
the RPATH. The ability to be platform agnostic from my
perspective over the last couple of years has been invaluable to know that
there's talk of contract shifts again here coming for the federal
government. Knowing that no matter what happens,
I can take my work with me and I don't have to keep rebuilding things. I can
give somebody the code to reproduce and repeat it without having to explain
all the data transformations and how the calculations
interact has been just invaluable.
Good point. That's another thing I keep evangelizing
specifically to. A lot of
banking heavily relies on vendors and often
I know other industries do too, but it feels
worse in banking than it even was in healthcare where
proprietary software comes with support
but you're putting yourself in vendor lock-in
and you end up having to try to figure out what's going on and you have no idea.
I agree with you 100% here.
To be technology agnostic is
what you want.
With both the industries that you work in,
I'd love to cover David's question around compliance.
David, would you be able to introduce yourself and your role and ask that
question? Sure, I'll be happy to. My name is David
Dreyer. I'm a technical expert at Syngenta Crop Protection.
We work in a pretty regulated environment in the pesticide
industry. As a result, we have compliance with what are called good
regulatory standards. We have to understand the data
from cradle to decision essentially.
With a lot of these guideline studies, they rely on
black box methods for data analysis and system statistics.
There's a lot of opportunity here to potentially use
some of the open source software to improve
essentially the analysis, transparency, etc. of our studies.
I'm just curious. Obviously, you work in a very different industry, but
still compliance is common. I'm interested in how you manage
those relationships. Could you tell us a little bit more about that?
In my experience,
if I cannot explain my models, compliance isn't
going to go for it. Unless it's from marketing, you have a lot more leeway.
I'm not sure people call what they're doing
self-modeling, but within modeling and particularly in banking,
if you do not have good explainability, at least none of my
compliance people or auditors are okay with it.
Sorry, I wish I had a better answer.
I was going to say, working in healthcare,
you're right, explainability, the ability
to backtrace whatever you've done and show your work
is a requirement. There's regulations
out there that you have to be able to show somebody
why the algorithm picked whatever it picked for them. My use here has been
pretty niche. It's mostly operations, and it's not very widespread,
which is kind of why I asked about getting new users on board, because they're starting
to see the value in it. But we have to be incredibly careful
that everything we do is approved by our IT
and that we're incredibly careful with what we
do with our data, because it's not our data.
We are very thoughtful at every step of the process to make sure that we're in compliance
with all the rules and regulations and bureaucracy.
Most of what we do is, we're not building black box models
that I can't tell you why this neural network spit out this answer.
What I'm more trying to do is tell you how many patients are going to be here
tomorrow, and where are they going to be, and what's their likely
cancellation rate, so you can maybe overbook or things like that.
Echoing David's question too,
it'd be great to also hear how you build confidence
in the tools as well, especially in these regulated environments
where you need everything from documented
verification of infrastructure to change control and validation
quality systems.
That has been pretty good, actually, because
Excel, what everybody has been doing for years,
it is not easy to tell when people make a change or why they did the change.
And so showing change control and how you can revert
in the past and exactly what the change was, why, when,
it makes people go, oh yeah, why haven't
we always done that? So there's something
I'm working on right now specifically because the
auditability wasn't in the process.
They're like, we actually need to understand what's happening
when. I was like, oh, well, we got a change out of Excel, guys,
and let me show you why. And they're like, oh, yes, this is exactly what we need. And it made
compliance super duper happy. With your relationship
with compliance. So I have a
lot of talks regularly with compliance people.
I've built some good relationships. So we have open conversations where we're
actually teaching each other some things so we can have more common of the language
because if you don't have that relationship, compliance and audit can be
horrible. But if you can find people that you start
having more of a let's understand each other's
vernacular and where we're coming from, it goes a lot easier.
It is a lot of work. The way a lawyer type
thinks is very different from a data scientist. Very different.
But the constant communication and
camaraderie is useful in the long term.
I agree. Being now in a data governance role,
it's just painful. They talk assets and
we talk data objects and they're like, what? But yeah, once you bring them
along, it's really pleasant.
It also builds the confidence
in what you're doing. If they feel like they can see transparency
and ask you questions without feeling stupid.
Yes. And I've noticed that in a room with more than three people, they will not
speak. I don't know if there's a ratio to courage,
but it's definitely interesting.
I think most people are scared of looking stupid.
The title data scientist is scary to most people.
Unless you can destroy
that bridge, that wall, people aren't going to talk to you.
I was just going to say, in balancing
accuracy versus explainability, depending on the methodology
you choose, sometimes we may have to take a hit
in accuracy because we can produce something that shows this is why
it came up, it followed this path. We use a tree model over
something else because I can give you a visual to say this is why the computer
did this in this way versus something that's not.
I can't give them a handout or a PowerPoint to explain the work. You just have to trust me.
Sorry, Alan, I realized that
was your question. I just couldn't see your name on where I'm keeping track of
all the questions. If you want to provide any other context or feedback
on that question, feel free to jump in too.
I was trying to think if there was anything that I wanted to add there.
Our environment has been changing such that
there is more room and more opportunity for these kinds of things, but the industry
and in particular the folks who drive the
quality system and change control at that broad organizational
level, it's pretty hard to bring in new things
and have confidence. I've been lucky enough for a few years to be
focused mostly in an area that didn't need to be compliant after having come from a space
where I had to be super compliant all the time. I was like, oh, great, freedom.
Now we're pivoting back and becoming a divisionally oriented function that is probably
going to have to figure out some of these things again.
That's an interesting place to be thinking about where we have
enjoyed being really nimble and flexible in terms of architecture and infrastructure
and how we approach things. We need to start wrapping some process around it
again. It's just on my mind
a lot about how do we retain a lot of that flexibility
and I think the power that comes with it while being able to demonstrate
that our environment does what we
think it does, that we could demonstrate that if need be.
It's going to be a negotiation that we'll have to figure out, but it's encouraging
to hear that folks have been successful in those
efforts, even though I know we'll have lots of details that
are going to be up in the air for us for a little while.
Thanks. Thank you, Alex.
I'm trying to scroll through to see if there's any questions
that I missed so far.
Hi, I'm Colin. I have a question. I'm just going to jump in here.
Perfect. Love it.
I'm curious if you could speak to how you think about
the different data analytics
projects that you tackle and how it ties to business value.
I say that because I find often I can
go off on sidetracks of what I think is pretty interesting
and kind of go down rapid holes, but then I have to step back and be like
is this actually creating any business value?
I'd just like to get your opinion on that. How do you think
about the project that you're tackling
and how it relates to creating business value?
It's really easy to
go down those rabbit holes, but I've found works best for me
and my team members that I've had
do things is make sure that you are constantly working with
business so that you're not going too far down a rabbit
hole that they're like I don't care about that. That doesn't affect me at all.
Where if I can get the business partners
feeling like it's their project and they're right
beside you helping through it, that
decreases the rabbit holes. It's still easy, but
I think we all have a tendency to be like that's an interesting problem.
Let's go look at it, but if you have that consistent
relationship with the business person where you are truly working
together and it's not just okay data scientists go do your
thing and then come back when you're done, that's when I think the rabbit hole
problem gets bad. There's a tendency for
I think both sides to be like well I'm busy in the business
so you just come back to me later.
As the data scientist, I think you just cannot
you can't go for that. I require if I'm doing work with you or for
you, you have to be my partner. Otherwise
it's not going to succeed.
I don't know if that helps you.
I have noticed people don't spend enough time
creating that relationship and enforcing that relationship. What was that, sorry?
That makes total sense.
I've definitely had experience of putting in
hours and hours on analysis and then the business is like
cool, but I don't know if they're using it or
what exactly is happening with it. It's hard to say if that was even
worthwhile.
Sorry, maybe I can jump in. Sorry to interrupt you. What you said before
about talking with the people in compliance, I think was really
relevant here also because I think oftentimes it's a communications issue.
One thing that I found is that people will ask how to do something
and I will show them and maybe I'll spend half an hour or even more
doing literally word for word what they ask for and then
I'll give them this beautiful result. I'll be so proud of myself that we came up with this beautiful solution
and they'll be like, no, that's not what it was.
That's literally word for word what you asked for. They'll be like, yeah, but no, what I
meant was this. Then I realized that I didn't really get what they really
wanted. I think oftentimes in that relevance, what isn't really useful
is if you can help the business is really asking them what you
really want to do. Why do you need this number? What is really the goal?
Maybe you can better help them really understand, okay, what are we going to do to have
the really maximum ROI? That's something else that I really talk to my students about.
What is the minimal thing, the easiest, smallest thing you can do
that can have the greatest impact on your work and on your life and make things easier?
Then focus on that, the 80-20 rule basically. Then they kind of
start seeing things about it in a different way. Am I really doing something that's valuable?
Is it really something that's going to have a huge ROI? Then they're a little bit more convinced
to go about that. That's a lot of communication I find.
I think that's a common theme that keeps coming up too
is communication with the business. Understanding how to
communicate so that it's relevant to them.
I find that, at least for me, the objective is to make them feel
ownership. If I can get that ownership where it's their baby
and they care about the success or failure, that's the key.
They're like, cool, it's your idea, then we're good.
That's a great point.
I feel like that came up on a few of the past conversations as well.
How do you make sure that you're working closely enough
with the business so that they feel that it's their project too?
Tori, if I could follow up on that. What does that look like
tactically for you? Working with the business?
Yeah, like communicating, getting them on board.
I've spent so much time.
For this current position, I actually created a whole vision which
then I had to go evangelize.
I had to get top level support where
it was the executives, all the executives were like, yes, we agree.
I said, okay, if these are the projects you need, who
is responsible? Who is my point person
that has the flexibility to take the time to be with me?
You have to tell them. This is important, not just to me, but to
you as the boss and the executive leadership.
Then it's been a lot of one-on-one
conversations. I could try to make it not just
about the data science part. I think a lot of the communication
to build that relationship to get the ownership is really understanding what
are the real underlying business problems. A lot of people
will be like, they think problem A
is their problem, but it's not. Only
during a lot of conversation and really understanding and
feeling their pain do you understand what the real problem is.
That is what you got to suss out.
It makes the relationship good. People feel heard if you
actually are understanding the real problem.
Does that answer your question, Raul?
Thumbs up.
One last thing before I need to drop off. The way I operationalized
this was during the engagement process, we were doing
elicitation. I would ask the leaders that were asking for the
work for a co-pilot. This person was going to share
and learn. They share business, we share
tech. Eventually, they take over the analytics so it can keep surviving.
They didn't upfront commit to a co-pilot to do the switch when
the project was almost done. That told me that they were really not that
upset. They were just kicking tires. We never really engaged with them.
Something that I've also found that
helped build the relationships and helped the business take
ownership is when you're presenting, have them do it.
That really makes people
feel ownership and proud. They care, particularly
if they're presenting. Then they feel cool, which is great.
Tori, I see Rick has
a follow-up question to what you just shared. Rick, do you want to
jump in and share that? Sure. I put it in the
chat. The question was, when you mentioned this thing about getting them
to come up with the real problem, I'm also
doing that. The question was, do you document that somehow? Do you
have a protocol where you state what the problem
is and then you take the steps? Then we can
see the progression of how we went from the original problem to the
so-called real problem, which is interesting in itself to understand how
that process worked. You can show people how that worked. Also, the other one is
it covers yourself because you can show
whoever, like, well, that is on paper. That's what we said we
were going to do and we did it so that people don't come back afterwards and say, hmm, it wasn't.
Do you have some kind of strategy for doing that?
Because where I am now, it's so new, I've not been as good
at documenting that whole process flow. Previously,
yes.
For each project or working with somebody, we'd start out with saying,
this is the objective and where we're going. We'd basically have minutes and notes that
would just tack on. Not that fancy.
Just note meetings, the notes from the meeting.
Basically.
Sometimes there's more of a structured document.
In some protocols, if I'm going to do an experiment, there's a clear, this is the input,
this is what the reagent was, this is the incubation, there's all
the little pieces inside and then you have the results. Then you can make a clear
direction between the results and the condition of the experiment. I would think of something
like that for, instead of just unstructured meeting notes,
which leave a lot to subjective people's writing
of what they want, and also interpretation, more of a clear
like, okay, this is the goal of the project, this is the variables, these are the data
sets, this is the main question, and then this is what each of the variables mean,
this is the problems with each of the variables, these are the techniques that are recommended, the pros and the cons,
and then a little bit more of a cleared outline in that way. Do you think that's worthwhile?
Yes, so by the point at you're actually producing
some output, yes. But like, to get
to that output, there's so much iteration beforehand
that a lot of the findings, they're documented, but
not as strictly as final outputs.
Like here are the iterations, this is what we've tried, this is why we didn't use this
variable. Sorry, I thought you were thinking more of
in the discussions of trying to assess out what the real problem is.
I found that's a lot messier. At least for me, I wish I could come up with a
stricter, but I think I'm not as clear cut
as I probably should be in that part.
It gets easier, I think, once you start swapping out variables and being like, oh, no,
this didn't work, let's document it. Does that kind of make sense? Yeah, okay.
Clearly, I should work on that a bit.
I know we're getting to the top of the hour here and a few
people have to jump off, but I'm happy to stay on
for any other questions that we haven't had a chance to answer yet.
I know there's one question from earlier that actually kind of touches on
a few of the earlier points around building the community and training,
but touches upon, like, why
now? Like, why is your team starting to make this change,
whether it's from SAS to Excel and moving over to
R and Python? What has been the key driver there?
For me? Yeah, for you.
Can I also jump in for about one minute?
Actually, from the other side of the table,
the last few years I've been teaching R for
students, and I think the main challenge
is how to get students on board.
I also teach Tableau, and I think
in comparison, I think R is more user-friendly, and then Tableau
is like a different Excel. For me, still most
students prefer to use Tableau because they thought
maybe it's more popular. I tell them
the truth is that if you learn R or Python, there are more jobs available.
I think Tableau probably did something
which could help them grow their
popularity in the business community and also
in academia. Primarily, I think they introduced
university ambassadors to
university students. Let's say if you are good at using Tableau, if you are
proficient, maybe they will give you a title because this student is
a Tableau ambassador, and then they send their portfolio to
the company, and then they apply to be ambassadors, and then
they can organize meetups. I mean, let's say R has been
such a great language in which I benefit personally and professionally.
I would say maybe in the future, if you can organize
more data analytics competitions for students
or probably meetups or probably
these kind of recognitions. I mean, the next generation of students
that could benefit from these skills. Otherwise, the graduates, they only
have Excel or SPSS. I mean, SPSS
probably nobody wants to use it from a company, but the majority
of professors still teach SPSS. I understand
maybe a few years ago when I started teaching R,
I had maybe less than five students who picked
up the R programming language, and at the end of the
semester, he told me that he was working for a banking company, and he
said he was using sentiment analysis to analyze customer
complaints for the first time ever.
He has an engineering background, so the majority
of students do not have that background to understand how R works.
Yes, thank you. That's a good point, Jimmy.
Tori, is that something that Woffed Bank does for
internships or maybe data competitions? I know in the sports analytics
meetup, we talked a little bit about the big data bull, and that's how
they find a lot of people for new positions.
We are in our absolute infancy,
so no. Previously, one of the things
that I found useful, not where I am, but
my prior bank, we did a lot with the
local university, which was awesome.
It started building a relationship between the data
scientists at the bank and the university, and it
helped drive actually what the university was teaching and found
some hires there. That was awesome.
The issue with banking is so many
of the universities are like, can we get an actual data set?
Real data versus the stuff we have,
they're not comparable. Real data is so
much messier and harder than the lovely Iris data set.
People come out of college, and they don't actually know how to
really deal with problems in the data set.
I've yet to figure out how to get
something like that going. I know there
are a few banks that have been able to
get their compliance okay to let people have some competitions
with their data, which I think would be awesome. I have not yet figured out how to do
that.
I don't think I see any other
questions in the chat, but one other question that I'd
love to ask Tori is, do you have any advice for people who are on
or maybe aspiring data science leaders for getting into leadership
roles? Into a leadership role,
I think it has to do with partnerships with the
businesses and communication. I've noticed the people
that are able to speak the language of the business people are the
ones that do the best. I know
it's fun to talk about the statistics and the
fun modeling that you go into, but that does not generally
make an executive go, wow, they care about the dollars. If you're
able to relate things back to how it affects
the business in the bottom line and speak that language,
those are the people that generally get picked
to start presenting and to talking with other leaders
because they can actually communicate and understand what you're saying.
It's a lot of work to understand
the business and to be able to speak both
like mathy nerd and business, but that's
really the key.
Thank you, Tori. That seems like so much of it really goes back to the
communication piece.
I know we're a little bit over on our original time and I don't see any
other questions. I just want to say thank you so much, Tori, for sharing your
insights and your experience. Thank you all for
joining as well. Tori, quick question. If people want to get
in contact with you, what's the best way?
Probably my Gmail. Here, I'll type it.
You can try LinkedIn. I'm just not good
in social media. I will check it eventually. There we go.
Awesome. Thank you, Tori. And thank you so much
everyone for joining. Hopefully, we'll see you next week, same time.
Can I ask a quick question for people who are still here? Something I was thinking
about that has been driving me crazy just about data
science is I wish there were
frustrated that there is a lack of a professional
certification organization. This runs
into a couple of different things. One of the
issues I see where data science fails is because there is
bad analysis. People aren't actually able to produce something because they don't
have the basic skills that they need. But then people
that want to actually understand that they have the skills and can tout it
have a harder time doing that. I was like, man,
these societies exist for every other profession.
You've got accountants becoming CPAs. You have financial analysts
like the good ones are CFAs. Sorry, I'm saying all acronyms.
Chartered financial analysts, lawyers, they have the bar.
Everybody in all these other professions
have some kind of professional organization, but we
don't as data scientists.
A lot of people trying to become a data scientist, they don't have an understanding
of what the minimum requirements are,
which I think would be useful for them.
I'm curious if this is a sentiment that other people have or if I'm just
going crazy. Maybe JJ can fix this one,
Rachel.
One of the things that all those professions or most of them have
in common is their protected names. You can't call yourself
a doctor. You can't call yourself a lawyer or an accountant unless you have that.
Those are names that are regulated and protected. If you call yourself a doctor
and you don't have that, then you're screwed.
I don't think data scientists would be ever a protected name
because scientists are not. I'm a biologist.
I have a doctor title, but a lot of people that don't have a doctor title call themselves a biologist.
I disagree with that, but I can't say
anything to them. I think science in general is
not really a protected name that people can have.
I also wanted to mention, based on that, there is this
data management organization.
I'm going to send you. I'll put it in the chat. This is the only one
that I ever found because I got a task to do a data management
proposal that I disappeared into the ether.
I don't know what happened with it, but because of that, I did a lot of research into these guys.
This is the only one. There are schools that they
pan out. To me, it was the only one. Maybe other people
in the group know other ones. It seems to be the only quasi
widely recognized certification in the field, although
everybody and their brothers got a different certification program.
You can do the certification for us. I have seen
people ask for it. As data management becomes popular, this
is being asked for on job profiles, but it's not specific for
actually doing data science itself, but it's something related.
One thing that has been frustrating for me is going
through. I feel like a lot of people will take one course
on Coursera, and they're like, I'm a data scientist. I'm like, hold up.
What are some fundamentals you need to understand?
P-hacking is a problem. Do you actually
understand basic statistics?
I get really frustrated as well.
I'll check that out. Thank you.
It's a great point, especially as people talk about reproducibility
crisis and all that. The fact that there is
no real certification.
I was going to ask, actually,
you were talking, this is sort of the technical skills. Do they have the
stats and the understanding and certification on that? You were talking earlier about the business
understanding and communication. I'm just
wondering, how do you, I don't know, is that a hiring thing?
What is that? How do you make sure you get people that not only do they know
how to do the data science piece, but they have the business piece as well?
When I'm hiring?
You're building a team.
When I've inherited teams,
it becomes pretty clear who is interested
in owning and really thinking. Unfortunately, a lot of people
don't like to think. They generally leave
if the expectations are high and their
peers don't feel like they're pursuing it.
Are you asking how do I make sure a new hire has those
softer skills? I guess what I'm wondering is if
that's a critical component of the success of the team,
how do you make sure that the team has those skills? Hiring seems
to be an obvious place, but if you already have a team, I guess
what you're doing is you're setting expectations and they weed themselves out.
That does work, actually. For the
statistics and understanding what they're doing, I feel like that is an absolute
fundamental. If you can't talk to somebody, that's a different problem.
If you're making just bad analysis, it's going to destroy the team.
The credibility is gone.
My previous team, there was a range of who
liked to do what. Because the
technical skills were all solid, not everybody
wants to talk to the business. The people that actually were good at it
could take that role.
In hiring, every time we're up to get a new
person, the team would actually get together being like, what qualities
are we lacking as a team? What do we need to really focus on
to make sure this person is adding that value to our team?
I don't think everybody is the same. I think you
rely on each other. That's when it becomes powerful.
Have you ever seen
a project manager taking that kind of role, the communication
with the business? Or is it usually someone from the team
that wants to do that? My experience of project
managers is not awesome. I've had one that I
really liked.
I'm sure there are some great ones. It's not that big, but we would just take on
project management ourselves. Because generally, the project managers
we had would turn more into task managers and not understand
really the intricacies.
I think not that long ago, somebody brought up their frustration
with Scrum.
Now we're doing stand-up meetings and
it doesn't seem to be working for data science. I get
that completely. Because data science and building a software
product are so different, but everybody assumes the same.
It feels to me like project management is generally more
on a, this is the dedicated timeline and you're going to hit that.
That's not really data science.
I've not found project managers that useful.
The one exception is they often will know
more people initially at a company
so they can help connect you with the person.
Can I ask on the product managers and Scrum,
because this was a big conversation for a while, that data science
cannot be done in an agile way.
It just doesn't work that way. There's a lot of people who argue that it can work
in that way. Also, it comes back to the topic we mentioned before.
I'm on the fence. It doesn't matter either way.
What we mentioned before, reiteration and communication coming back and back.
That would fit well with these kind of sprints and
having a clear result and checking in, are we going in the right direction?
Some people argue that actually it does work quite well.
I think it can work well. I think people try to shove data science into
how they create a
software product.
Shoving it into the box, it doesn't work.
Data science, if we aren't actually agile, if we're not
failing fast and making sure what we're doing still makes sense, will fail.
What frustrates me is I'm like, hold on, the idea of
agility isn't Scrum.
It seems like people cross those wires.
Yeah, you want to fail fast. Let's make sure we're doing things that are reasonable and not
going down a rabbit hole and not talking to somebody for a month.
The timeline thing can be tricky.
I'm not sure about all that either. I still kind of prefer
working on boards to
the current Scrum. I don't know. I'm on the fence too.
Rob B., I see you unmuted yourself. Did you have a
final question?
Thanks again for doing this, Tori.
There's business skills.
Then I guess one level deeper is there's
industry level skills.
You're a data scientist at a financial services company. You understand
finance. Is that on the critical path
for a hire on your team or in your organization?
No. When I look
at hires, I care if they can think logically. I do not
care if they even have programming or if they
understand the industry. I care about the way they think because
I'm like, okay, if you think logically, hopefully they have
programming. Most people now that are applying have programming.
I can teach banking. I cannot teach logic.
If you don't think that way, that's not going to work.
Banking, I can teach.
Discount cash flow, why bankers do things the way they are, that's simple compared
to what I expect from a budding
data scientist.
There was one person I
hired internally. Everybody else had
it came from oceanography, physics,
math, and none of them were banking.
I actually found that really helpful because people see problems differently when they
come from different industries. It's more of how do you tackle a problem?
When you interview, how do you test
for that skill? Can they think logically?
I do actually use tests. We do have
the regular talking to people.
I usually give a couple different tests.
One is a take home, like you have X amount of hours and here's
some data. Do something with it. Give me a report. It's really open-ended.
I found there's not
so many ways you can solve it
correctly. The wrong answers are just blatant.
It's just obvious. The other thing that
I don't know how to, we've been doing it online and it's weird to do
it online, but it's nice to have somebody actually come in and try to do
something live without internet. You're like, okay, here's a computer if
you want. Here's your task you have to solve.
Go for it. I don't really care if they solve it. I want to see how they
go about it. I had one guy that could not for the life of him
remember the package. I think he chose to use Python. He was like, I don't care
what programming language you do. You have this task. He could not remember how
to run a regression. On pen and paper,
he figured it all out
and then used his own algorithm and implemented it. He was one of
the best hires I've ever hired. It was beautiful.
Anyway, I try to pinpoint what are the skills
and the thinking that I want to see. Can you demonstrate that?
What I really want to avoid is the people that will
be like, I'm going to throw all this data and use
a convolutional neural network to solve something that really
could be done with regular expressions.
I've seen this. That's what I don't want.
It's really obvious. It's a simple task.
That's great. Do you ever ask
them, because you touched on it before, asking them to explain
to someone what they just did? If you then get people talking about
here's the model and that piece as opposed to the value.
Do you test for that as well?
I played around with a couple things when somebody is doing a live coding or
a live... Can you explain your thought process as you're going
through this, which is really enlightening?
I find it useful to see what type of questions
people ask or how much will they persist?
How much understanding
are they trying to dig? That sounds
subjective, but it becomes very apparent.
Going off of Robert's question,
do you find a lot of hires that do think logically
but really only when it comes to the data science aspect?
In the process of teaching them the banking and the business side,
I guess a lot of these questions around what is the
value of these things connecting with the business partners. I think I was thinking
what Robert was is it might be helpful to find people who already
have that sense of why this is valuable to the business.
It sounds like you're more confident in your ability to just
train them to do that and you want them to have those core skills instead.
What is my question here? What is training
them on the business look like to you?
I always force people to actually have
serious partnerships, but I think I understand your question because I've had a few employees
where they get so excited about the modeling
that they forget that actually we have to
make value or there is no reason that we exist. We're
just becoming an expense. I've had to have those
conversations before. I know this is exciting, but there is a balance between
figuring out a really cool way of doing this
and giving real value without taking too much time.
Those are conversations and depending on the person
there are just people that would love to be in academia but are
not.
Some of the PhDs
I have had more of that with.
You've been in school forever. That is what you do.
I had
one other thought because we're still talking.
Getting people to present their results is useful,
but I've had to coach multiple people being like,
remember who's in the audience. You're talking to the CEO. Is he going to care about this?
No. He cares about his financials
showing this, this, and this. How can you relate this back?
Instead of spoon feeding it though, you've got to get them to actually
understand how to do that, which takes time.
I do have a meeting in five minutes, but I have three.
I was going to say I'm waiting to see if someone else
jumped in. Thank you so much, Tori.
Thank you, guys. This was fun.
This was a great session. I hope to see you next week, too.